docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

# 🌟 Data Science for Kids Summer Camp

> *A magical 5-day journey into the world of data science for young explorers aged 10-14*

Welcome to an enchanting adventure where mathematics meets magic, and data tells stories! This summer camp introduces fundamental data science concepts through hands-on activities, storytelling, and creative projects using R programming.

## 🗓️ 5-Day Adventure Plan

| Day | Theme | Key Concepts | Magic Activity |
|-----|-------|--------------|----------------|
| **[1](day01/README.md)** | 🌟 Basic Programming Magic | Variables, data types, loops | Magic Forest Word Reorganizer |
| **[2](day02/README.md)** | 📊 Data Storytelling | Functions, data wrangling, visualization | Team Data Detective Project |
| **[3](day03/README.md)** | 🐄 Statistics Safari | Mean, sampling, confidence intervals | Candy Bag Sampling Adventure |
| **[4](day04/README.md)** | 🤖 Machine Learning Quest | KNN, training, testing | Physical Board Game Classification |
| **[5](day05/README.md)** | 🧠 AI & Neural Networks | Neural networks, ethics, future | String & Neuron Connection Game |

## 🚀 Quick Start Guide

### Technology Setup

1. **[Set up Posit Cloud](setup/posit-cloud-setup.md)** - Our magical coding environment (recommended!)
2. **[Create Claude account](setup/claude-setup.md)** - Your AI programming assistant
3. **[Backup: Local R Setup](setup/local-rstudio-setup.md)** - For offline adventures

## 🎒 What YOU Need

- **Laptop or tablet** with internet connection
- **Curiosity and creativity** (most important!)
- **Cloud computing account**: Posit Cloud account (free)
- **Optional**: Claude account (free)

## 👩‍🏫 Meet Your Instructor

[**Sky (Kehan) Sheng**](http://www.skysheng.io/) is a PhD candidate at UBC doing research in data science, AI fairness and animal welfare science. Sky is passionate about making data science and AI accessible and fun for young learners.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

This workshop builds upon the excellent work of:
- **Girls in Data Science** workshop by Dr. Katie Burak, Jenny Lee, and Mona Zhu {cite}`Burak2023GirlsDS`
- **Data Science: A First Introduction** by Dr. Tiffany Timbers, Dr. Trevor Campbell, and Dr. Melissa Lee {cite}`Timbers2022DSFirst`
- **ModernDive** by Dr. Chester Ismay and Dr. Albert Y. Kim {cite}`Ismay2019ModernDive`

Commit message:

update readme use otter wizard theme

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

# 🌟 Data Science for Kids Summer Camp

> *A 5-day adventure with a magical otter who sees the future in data! For young explorers aged 10-14.*

Welcome, young data detectives! Meet the Otter Oracle, a friendly hacker who can look into a magical crystal ball to see stories hidden in data. Join us to learn the otter's secrets and become a data wizard yourself!

## 🗓️ 5-Day Adventure Plan

| Day | Theme | Key Concepts | Magic Activity |
|-----|-------|--------------|----------------|
| **[1](day01/README.md)** | 🌟 Basic Programming Magic | Variables, data types, loops | Magic Forest Word Reorganizer |
| **[2](day02/README.md)** | 📊 Data Storytelling | Functions, data wrangling, visualization | Team Data Detective Project |
| **[3](day03/README.md)** | 🐄 Statistics Safari | Mean, sampling, confidence intervals | Candy Bag Sampling Adventure |
| **[4](day04/README.md)** | 🤖 Machine Learning Quest | KNN, training, testing | Physical Board Game Classification |
| **[5](day05/README.md)** | 🧠 AI & Neural Networks | Neural networks, ethics, future | String & Neuron Connection Game |

## 🚀 Quick Start Guide

### Technology Setup

1. **[Set up Posit Cloud](setup/posit-cloud-setup.md)** - Our magical coding environment (recommended!)
2. **[Create Claude account](setup/claude-setup.md)** - Your AI programming assistant
3. **[Backup: Local R Setup](setup/local-rstudio-setup.md)** - For offline adventures

## 🎒 What YOU Need

- **Laptop or tablet** with internet connection
- **Curiosity and creativity** (most important!)
- **Cloud computing account**: Posit Cloud account (free)
- **Optional**: Claude account (free)

## 👩‍🏫 Meet Your Instructor

[**Sky (Kehan) Sheng**](http://www.skysheng.io/) is a PhD candidate at UBC doing research in data science, AI fairness and animal welfare science. Sky is passionate about making data science and AI accessible and fun for young learners.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

This workshop builds upon the excellent work of:
- **Girls in Data Science** workshop by Dr. Katie Burak, Jenny Lee, and Mona Zhu {cite}`Burak2023GirlsDS`
- **Data Science: A First Introduction** by Dr. Tiffany Timbers, Dr. Trevor Campbell, and Dr. Melissa Lee {cite}`Timbers2022DSFirst`
- **ModernDive** by Dr. Chester Ismay and Dr. Albert Y. Kim {cite}`Ismay2019ModernDive`
